Improvements (#33)
yaronf/draft-tls-attestation: draft-fossati-tls-attestation.md

#  Introduction

Secure channel establishment in TLS ({{RFC8446}}) relies on authentication to
afford each entity the confidence that exchanged data can only be accessed by the

> expected peer. In the context of a workload running in a Trusted Execution
> Environment, the authentication process benefits from a powerful primitive -
> remote attestation. Remote attestation allows the workload to offer guarantees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expected peer. When running a workload in a Trusted Execution
Environment (TEE), the authentication process can be enhanced with
remote attestation. Remote attestation allows the workload to offer guarantees
```

about its security state, enabling more comprehensive security policies.

The Remote ATtestation ProcedureS (RATS) architecture {{-rats-arch}} defines two
basic topological patterns for communication between an attester, a relying
party, and a verifier, namely the background-check model and the passport model.
These two models are fundamentally different, and thus require a different

> treatment when incorporated into the TLS handshake. For better readability we
> suggest the use of different extensions for these two models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
treatment when incorporated into the TLS handshake.
```

The two models can be summarized as follows:

> - In the background check model, the attester conveys evidence to the relying
>   party, which then forwards the evidence to the verifier for appraisal; the
>   verifier computes the attestation result and sends it back to the relying
>   party. Because the attestation evidence is produced and verified during the TLS
>   handshake, special consideration must be given to ensuring the freshness and
>   provenance of the evidence (see {{evidence-extensions}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the background check process, an attester provides evidence to a relying
  party, who forwards it to a verifier for appraisal. The
  verifier then computes the attestation result and sends it back to the relying
  party. As the attestation evidence is generated and verified during the TLS
  handshake, it is essential to ensure the evidence's freshness and
  origin (refer to {{evidence-extensions}} for more details).
```

  
- In the passport model, the attester transmits evidence to the verifier directly
  and receives an attestation result, which is then relayed to the relying party.

>   Given that the credential is not expected to be generated in-band during the

Reviewer 2: Is "credential" the right word here?

Author: Swapped for "attestation result"

> - In the passport model, the attester transmits evidence to the verifier directly
>   and receives attestation results, which are then relayed to the relying party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the passport model, the attester transmits evidence to the verifier directly
  and receives an attestation result, which is then relayed to the relying party.
```

  handshake, fewer inter-protocol requirements must be satisfied (see
  {{attestation-results-extensions}}).

> This specification supports both patterns. In background check model any
> attestation technology characteristics - such as evidence encoding format, and
> semantics of the evidence contents - are agnostic to TLS handshake itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification supports both patterns. In the background check model, any
attestation technology characteristics, such as evidence encoding format and
semantics of the evidence contents, are agnostic to the TLS handshake itself.
```

> Similarly, in the passport model, the characteristics of the attestation results
> - such as encoding format and trust relationships - are agnostic to the TLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, in the passport model, the characteristics of the attestation results,
such as encoding format and trust relationships, are agnostic to the TLS
```

- the Entity Attestation Token (EAT) {{I-D.ietf-rats-eat}}, 
- the Trusted Platform Modules (TPMs) {{TPM1.2}} {{TPM2.0}},
- the Android Key Attestation, and
- Apple Key Attestation. 

Likewise, there are different encodings available for attestation results. One
such encoding, AR4SI {{?I-D.ietf-rats-ar4si}}, is being standardized by the RATS
working group.

However, this document does not specify how different attestation technologies
should be defined, only that they should all be usable within our framework.
Attestation mechanisms must be defined by companion specifications.

To give the peer information that the handshake signing key is properly secured,
the associated attestation result has to be appraised by the peer. This must be
the case when either of the two remote attestation topologies is used. Hence,
attestation evidence must contain the security state of both the signing key and
of the platform hosting it. A Platform Attestation Service issues Platform
Attestation Tokens (PAT) to prove that the Key Attestation Service has not been
tampered with. The Key Attestation Service in turn issues Key Attestation Tokens

> (KAT) to prove that the signing key is secure, as described in {{-rats-kat}}. The

Reviewer 2: Confused: I thought the rats-kat document is a modular plug-in for the current document, and can be replaced with other implementations. This paragraph sounds like it is mandatory.

Can you please check if this can be consolidated with my proposed text in #32.

Author: Yes, this makes sense, I think it would be best if we merge #32 and then I reference that section here!

Reviewer 2: Done. I think you will need to manually merge the text with the current PR.

Author: Done!

#  Introduction

Secure channel establishment in TLS ({{RFC8446}}) relies on
authentication to afford each entity the confidence that exchanged data
can only be accessed by the expected peer. When running a workload in a
Trusted Execution Environment (TEE), the authentication process can be
enhanced with remote attestation. Remote attestation allows the workload
to offer guarantees about its security state, enabling more
comprehensive security policies.

The Remote ATtestation ProcedureS (RATS) architecture {{-rats-arch}} defines two
basic topological patterns for communication between an attester, a relying
party, and a verifier, namely the background-check model and the passport model.
These two models are fundamentally different, and thus require a different
treatment when incorporated into the TLS handshake.

The two models can be summarized as follows:

> - In the background check process, an attester provides evidence to a relying

Reviewer: apologies for making the wrong suggestion previously :-)

```suggestion
- In the background check model, an attester provides evidence to a relying
```

confidential workload (the attester).

The flow starts with the client initiating a verification session with a
trusted verifier.  The verifier returns the evidence types it
understands and a nonce that will be used to challenge the attester.

The client starts the TLS handshake with the server by supplying the
attestation-related parameters it has obtained from the verifier.  If
the server supports one of the offered evidence types, it will echo it
in the specular extension and proceed by invoking the local API

> ('attest_key(...)') to request attestation using the nonce supplied by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`attest_key(...)`) to request attestation using the nonce supplied by
```

> (`attest_key(...)`) to request attestation using the nonce supplied by

Reviewer 2: I assume the API name `attest_key` is not standardized. Should we use it here?

Reviewer: FYI.  In a private exchange, Yuxuan Song raised the same point.

Author: Apologies, I thought I'd replied to this. I've added some text next to `attest_key` to make it clear that it's just a way for us to denote the attestation process in the diagram. Does that work?

the verifier.  The returned evidence binds the identity key (TIK) with
the platform identity and security state, packaged into a CAB.  The

> server then signs the handshake transcript ('hs' in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
server then signs the handshake transcript (`hs` in
```

confidential workload (the attester).

The flow starts with the client initiating a verification session with a
trusted verifier.  The verifier returns the evidence types it
understands and a nonce that will be used to challenge the attester.

The client starts the TLS handshake with the server by supplying the
attestation-related parameters it has obtained from the verifier.  If
the server supports one of the offered evidence types, it will echo it
in the specular extension and proceed by invoking a local API

> (symbolised by `attest_key(...)` in the figure below) to request

Author: Done, did the same for `hs`

|  |                    |                        | attest_key(   |    |
|  |                    |                        |   nonce,      |    |
|  |                    |                        |   TIK-S       |    |
|  |                    |                        | )             |    |
|  |                    |                        +-------------->|    |
|  |                    |                        | CAB(KAT, PAT) |    |
|  |                    |                        |<--------------+    |
|  |                    | ServerHello            |               |    |
|  |                    |  {...}                 |               |    |
|  |                    | EncryptedExtensions    |               |    |
|  |                    |  {...}                 |               |    |
|  |                    |  evidence_request(     |               |    |
|  |                    |    type(a)             |               |    |
|  |                    |  )                     |               |    |
|  |                    | Certificate(KAT,PAT)   |               |    |
|  |                    |<-----------------------+               |    |

> |  |                    |                        | sign(TIK,hs)  |    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  |                    |                        | sign(TIK-S,hs)  |    |
```

Certificate message the server has to request mutual authentication
via the CertificateRequest message.

The client, when receiving the EncryptedExtension with the

> evidence_proposal, will proceed by invoking a local API (symbolised by
> `attest_key(...)`) to request the attestation.  The returned evidence

Reviewer: `attest_key` has already been defined at L877

```suggestion
evidence_proposal, will proceed by invoking a local API
to request the attestation.  The returned evidence
```

|  |                |  )                     |                   |    |
|  |                | CertificateRequest     |                   |    |
|  |                | Certificate            |                   |    |
|  |                | CertificateVerify      |                   |    |
|  |  attest_key(   | Finished               |                   |    |
|  |    nonce,      |<-----------------------+                   |    |

> |  |    TIK         |                        |                   |    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  |    TIK-C       |                        |                   |    |
```

|  |  )             |                        |                   |    |
|  |<---------------+                        |                   |    |
|  |                |                        |                   |    |
|  |  CAB(KAT, PAT) |                        |                   |    |
|  +--------------->| Certificate(KAT,PAT)   |                   |    |
|  |                +----------------------->|                   |    |

> |  |  sign(TIK,hs)  |                        |                   |    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  | sign(TIK-C,hs) |                        |                   |    |
```
